some of the most influential members of
Chile's economic political and artistic
Community arrive at the Palestinian Club
in Santiago to take part in a fundraiser
for victims of the war in Gaza former
congressman and Constitutional
Convention delegate fad chin is among
them initially people understand that
this is not a religious conflict with
Israel as some claim but rather between
an occupying power that is looking to
carry out ethnic cleansing and occupied
people like the majority ch's
grandfather came to Chile to avoid the
Army when Palestine was controlled by
the Ottoman Empire and later the British
some crossed the Andes Mountains on
donkeys from neighboring Argentina the
vast majority came from Christian
communities today they're among the
wealthiest in the
country in patronato nicknamed little
Palestine the streets are full of
Palestinian restaurants bakeries and
symbols of support for the Palestinian
cause the first Palestinians began
arriving at the end of the 19th and
beginning of the 20th century then in
the 1990s a new group arrived and
finally in the last 6 years more
Palestinians this time mainly Muslims
have become coming here for the obvious
reasons 22-year-old a Al hamidi came to
Chile with her parents from a refugee
camp on the Iraqi Syria border she's now
a
citizen I'm grateful to Chile because
it's a country that opens its doors to
people who are
suffering a has spent every weekend at
demonstrations to denounce what many in
the community describe as Israeli
genocide in Gaza like Aya Chile's former
women's Minister says Chile and
Palestinians never forget their
Roots my grandmother always told me
never forget Palestine we have the
Mandate and that responsibility you
really feel that I ask every day of my
life and especially during a time of
Crisis like
this a crisis that seems to have no end
which is why the largest Palestinian
Community outside of the Middle East is
sticking steadfast to the cause of those
thousands of kilometers away Lucia
Newman Al jaaz
Santiago make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz